# Heroes of Eradin Game

> Iteration one should be as basic as possible. Only what is absolutely needed to make the game playable. Additional party members, actual exploration, crafting, character ability management and other additions will come later.

> Balancing and combat is done via an elemental system. Character will deal more damage in their chosen element. Classes also provide a specific elemental bonus (although less prominent). Characters can not die, they only become "injured" as a status and return to camp where they must heal.

> Progression is done via levels and not exploration (for now).

> There is no storyline (for now)

> Programming:
Treat as a command line application in PHP for now. Unity is an eventual target platform for a future graphics heavy version so object oriented programming will be required.

---

## 1st iteration

> Just the screens. A clickable interface that can be navigated through and provides all of the basic screens. No real actions are taken. A second immediate iteration might be function calls to empty functions for related actions.

_Start_

  - New -> _Character Creation_
  - Load -> load function -> _Inn_
  - About -> _About_

_About_

  - Text
  - Return to Start Screen -> _Start_

_Character Creation_

  - Gender
    - Male
    - Female
  - Class
    - Warrior - physical combat class (Earth)
    - Ranger - ranged combat class (Air)
    - Mage - ranged magic class (Fire)
    - Cleric - ranged healer class (Water)
  - Element
    - Fire
    - Water
    - Air
    - Earth
  - Name
    - Text entry
  - Confirm
    - save function -> load function -> _Inn_
_Inn_

  - Explore -> _Explore_
  - Store -> _Store_
  - Inventory -> _Inventory_
  - Equipment -> _Equipment_
  - Save and Quit -> save function -> _Start_

_Store_

  - Buy -> *
  - Sell -> *
  - Leave -> _Inn_

_Inventory_

  - View -> *
  - Select -> *
  - Use -> *
  - Close -> _Inn_

_Equipment_

  - Paper Doll -> * (wtf does this mean? How does this work in a text only env?)
  - Close -> _Inn_

_Explore_

  - Fight
    - Fire Attack
    - Water Attack
    - Air Attack
    - Earth Attack
  - Use -> *
  - Flee -> _Explore_
  - Return to Inn -> _Inn_

* = complex items to be skipped in first and second iterations

---

## Start Screen

- New

Create a new entry in the save game database
Go to Character Creation screen

- Load

Check for and select a save game from the database
When loaded go to Inn Screen

- About

Credits

## Character Creation Screen

- Select gender

Male
Female

- Select class

Warrior - physical combat class (Earth)
Ranger - ranged combat class (Air)
Mage - ranged magic class (Fire)
Cleric - ranged healer class (Water)

- Select element

Characters are more resistant to this element of attack and also gain more powerful attacks in this element

Fire
Water
Air
Earth

## Inn Screen

- Explore

Go to Explore Screen

- Store

Go to Store Screen

- Inventory

Go to Inventory Screen

- Equipment

Go to Equipment Screen

# Store Screen

- Buy

List store inventory
Select item to see cost and stats
Buy item

- Sell

List character inventory
Select item to see sale value
Sell item

- Leave

Go to Inn Screen

# Inventory Screen

- View Item

Display the item with a description

- Select Item

Highlight the item for use on another item

- Use selected item on...

Use the highlighted item on this item
Forms another item, uses up an item, or does nothing

- Close

Go to Inn Screen

# Equipment Screen

Paper Doll Interface
Click on slot to view list of available equipment
Selecting equipment lists stats and compares to currently equipped item

## Explore Screen

- Fight

When characters click explore the automatically go to the combat screen with a monster
Characters have four attacks, use item, and flee options in combat

Combat Options:

- Fire Attack
- Water Attack
- Air Attack
- Earth Attack

Attacks are abilities that characters learn as they level up. These abilities are automatic and each is from a different family (fire, water, air, earth) and impacts enemies differently (based on their defense family).

- Use Item

Use an item to cure a condition (antidote) or heal (potion)

Conditions:
Fire - Burned
Water - Frozen
Air - Poisoned
Earth - Paralyzed

- Flee

Go to Inn Screen